Is spanish the official or national language in Spain , Equatorial Guinea , and 19 countries in the Americas?
Do speakers in the Western Hemisphere total some 418 million?
Is in the European Union , Spanish the mother tongue of 8 % of the population , with an additional 7 % speaking it as a second language?
Is spanish the most popular second language learned in the United States?
Is castilian the official Spanish language of the State?
Have two etymologies for español been suggested?
Do other authorities attribute it to a supposed mediaeval Latin *hispaniōne , with the same meaning?
Did previously , several pre-Roman languages —unrelated to Latin , and some of them unrelated even to Indo-European—were spoken in the Iberian Peninsula?
Did these languages include Basque , Iberian , Celtiberian and Celtic?
Is the first documents to record what today regarded as the precursor of modern Spanish are from the 9th century?
Were in addition , many more words borrowed from Latin through the influence of written language and the liturgical language of the Church?
Was the dialect later brought to the city of Toledo , where the written standard of Spanish was first developed , in the 13th century?
Is in modern Spanish , there no difference between the pronunciation of orthographic b and v , with some exceptions in Caribbean Spanish?
Did some consonant clusters of Latin also produce characteristically different results in these languages , as shown in the examples in the following table?
Was from the sixteenth century onwards , the language taken to America and the Spanish East Indies via Spanish colonization of America?
Is spanish syntax considered right-branching , meaning that subordinate or modifying constituents tend to be placed after their head words?
Is its sentence structure generally subject–verb–object , although variations are common?
Is it a `` pro-drop '' , or `` null-subject '' language—that is , it allows the deletion of subject pronouns when they are pragmatically unnecessary?
Is Subject/verb inversion not required in questions , and thus the recognition of declarative or interrogative may depend entirely on intonation?
Have in most dialects they been merged , respectively , with /s/ and /ʝ/ , in the mergers called , respectively , seseo and yeísmo?
Is the phoneme /ʃ/ in parentheses to indicate that it appears only in loanwords?
Is spanish classified by its rhythm as a syllable-timed language : each syllable has approximately the same duration regardless of stress?
Are there no syntactic markers to distinguish between questions and statements and thus , the recognition of declarative or interrogative depends entirely on intonation?
Does Stress most often occur on any of the last three syllables of a word , with some rare exceptions at the fourth-last or earlier syllables?
Are the tendencies of stress assignment as follows?
Do in words that end with a vowel , stress most often falls on the penultimate syllable?
Are thus , regular verbs ending with -n and the great majority of words ending with -s stressed on the penult?
Do exceptions to those rules cause an acute accent mark to appear over the stressed syllable?
Is spanish the primary language of 20 countries worldwide?
Is spanish the second most spoken language by total number of speakers?
Is in Europe , Spanish an official language of Spain , the country after which it is named and from which it originated?
Is it widely spoken in Gibraltar , although English is the official , international language?
Is it also commonly spoken in Andorra , although Catalan is the official language?
Is spanish also spoken by small communities in other European countries , such as the United Kingdom , France , Italy , and Germany?
Is spanish an official language of the European Union?
Did in Switzerland which have a massive influx of Spanish migrants in the 20th century , Spanish is the native language of 2.2 % of the population?
Is spanish co-official with English in Puerto Rico?
Have due to their proximity to Spanish-speaking countries , Trinidad and Tobago and Brazil implemented Spanish language teaching into their education systems?
Did the Trinidad government launch the Spanish as a First Foreign Language initiative in March 2005?
Is in many border towns and villages along Paraguay and Uruguay , a mixed language known as Portuñol spoken?
Is spanish also used in administration in the state of New Mexico?
Is in Africa , Spanish official in Equatorial Guinea , as well as an official language of the African Union?
Do a small number of Moroccan Jews also speak the Sephardic Spanish dialect Haketia?
Was in Western Sahara , formerly Spanish Sahara , Spanish officially spoken during the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries?
Is spanish present on Easter Island , as it was annexed as a Chilean province in 1888?
Was spanish an official language of the Philippines from the beginning of Spanish rule in 1565 to a constitutional change in 1973?
Was during Spanish colonization , it the language of government , trade and education , and spoken as a first language by Spaniards and educated Filipinos?
Did in the mid-nineteenth century , the colonial government set up a free public education system with Spanish as the medium of instruction?
Did this increased use of Spanish throughout the islands lead to the formation of a class of Spanish-speaking intellectuals called the Ilustrados?
Was however , Spanish never spoken by the majority of the population?
Did gradually , however , the American government begin increasingly promoting the use of English , and it characterized Spanish as a negative influence of the past?
Did eventually , by the 1920s , English become the primary language of administration and education?
Did in 2010 , President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo encourage the reintroduction of Spanish-language teaching in the Philippine education system?
Was but by 2012 , the number of secondary schools at which the language either a compulsory subject or an elective had become very limited?
Did aside from standard Spanish , a Spanish-based creole language—Chavacano—developed in the southern Philippines?
Was the number of Chavacano-speakers estimated at 1.2 million in 1996?
Is however , it not mutually intelligible with Spanish?
Were speakers of the Zamboangueño variety of Chavacano numbered about 360,000 in the 2000 census?
Are spanish loan words present in the local languages of these territories as a legacy of colonial rule?
Is today , Spanish not spoken officially in any of these former Spanish territories?
Does the following table show the number of Spanish speakers in some 79 countries?
Is the variety with the most speakers Mexican Spanish?
Is one of its main features the reduction or loss of unstressed vowels , mainly when they are in contact with the sound /s/?
Has the educated Madrid variety most influenced the written standard for Spanish?
Is in most of Hispanic America it pronounced , as in English , a Voiceless alveolar `` hissing '' sibilant?
Is debuccalization frequently called `` aspiration '' in English , and aspiración in Spanish?
Is the maintenance of phonemic contrast called distinción in Spanish?
Is in other areas , /θ/ merged with /s/?
Did in most of Hispanic America , the spelled ⟨c⟩ before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ , and spell ⟨z⟩ is always pronounced as a Voiceless alveolar `` hissing '' sibilant?
Is such a phonemic merger called yeísmo in Spanish?
Is the use of vos called voseo?
Are in a few dialects , all three pronouns used , with usted , tú , and vos denote respectively formality , familiarity , and intimacy?
Are the verb forms of general voseo the same as those used with tú except in the present tense verbs?
Are in Chilean voseo on the other hand , almost all verb forms distinct from their standard tú-forms?
Is the use of the pronoun vos with the verb forms of tú called `` pronominal voseo ''?
Is conversely , the use of the verb forms of vos with the pronoun tú called `` verbal voseo ''?
Do some researchers maintain that voseo can be heard in some parts of eastern Cuba , and others assert that it is absent from the island?
Does most of Spain maintain the formal/familiar distinction with ustedes and vosotros respectively?
Is usted the usual second-person singular pronoun in a formal context , but it is used joint with the third-person singular voice of the verb?
Is it used to convey respect toward someone who is a generation older or is of higher authority?
Is this usage sometimes called ustedeo in Spanish?
Is in Central America , especially in Honduras , usted often used as a formal pronoun to convey respect between the members of a romantic couple?
Is usted also used that way as well as between parents and children in the Andean regions of Ecuador , Colombia and Venezuela?
Is Papaya the slang term for `` vagina '' in parts of Cuba and Venezuela , where the fruit is instead called fruta bomba and lechosa , respectively?
Is spanish closely related to the other West Iberian Romance languages , including Asturian , Aragonese , Galician , Ladino , Leonese , Mirandese and Portuguese?
Is it generally acknowledged that Portuguese- and Spanish-speakers can communicate , although with varying degrees of difficulty?
Does Ethnologue give estimates of the lexical similarity between related languages in terms of precise percentages?
Is for Spanish and Portuguese , that figure 89 %?
Is italian , on the other hand—although its phonology more similar to that of Spanish—is said to have a lexical similarity of 82 %?
Is mutual intelligibility between Spanish and French or between Spanish and Romanian lower still , given lexical similarity ratings of 75 % and 71 % respectively?
Have and comprehension of Spanish by French speakers who not studied the language is much lower , at an estimated 45 %?
Does the following table compare the forms of some common words in several Romance languages?
Does Notice that this negative meaning also apply for Latin sinistra?
Does note that Romanian caș mean a type of cheese?
Is the universal term for cheese in Romanian brânză?
Did conversely , in Portugal the vast majority of the Portuguese Jews convert and became 'New Christians '?
Is therefore , its relationship to Spanish comparable with that of the Yiddish language to German?
Is however , it experiencing a minor revival among Sephardi communities , especially in music?
Is in the case of the Latin American communities , the danger of extinction also due to the risk of assimilation by modern Castilian?
Is a related dialect Haketia , the Judaeo-Spanish of northern Morocco?
Have since 1994 ⟨ch⟩ and ⟨ll⟩ been treated as letter pairs for collation purposes , though they remain a part of the alphabet?
Are words with ⟨ch⟩ now alphabetically sorted between those with ⟨cg⟩ and ⟨ci⟩ , instead of following ⟨cz⟩ as they used to?
Is the situation similar for ⟨ll⟩?
Has thus , the Spanish alphabet the following 27 letters and 2 digraphs?
Do the letters k and w are used only in words and names coming from foreign languages kilo , folklore , whisky , kiwi , etc?
Are exceptions to this rule indicated by placing an acute accent on the stressed vowel?
Is when u written between g and a front vowel e or i , it indicates a `` hard g '' pronunciation?
Are interrogative and exclamatory clauses introduced with inverted question and exclamation marks?
Is the Association of Spanish Language Academies the entity which regulates the Spanish language?
Was it created in Mexico in 1951 and represents the union of all the separate academies in the Spanish-speaking world?
Is the Instituto Cervantes a worldwide non-profit organization created by the Spanish government in 1991?
Has this organization branched out in over 20 different countries with 54 centers devoted to the Spanish and Hispanic American culture and Spanish Language?